*Created on 20th May 2023

# Med notes
- [ ] Added to notes
---


Opening statement:
- Patients initials
- Occupation if relvant
	- Like personal trainer
- If recently pregnant
- Significant smoker, alcohol drinker, substance abuse
- If obese, with morbid obesity, or grade 2/3 obesity (calculate BMI)
- If socially isolated, functinally declining
- Only give out symptoms, and say it is a diagnostic issue
- Only say management issue with specific diagnosis if its an exacerbation of a known issue

HPC:
- Ask age, weight, height
- Ask dry weight, fluid weight with [[Heart Failure]] patients
- Always ask why are you here ***THIS TIME***. if not,. patient will say why they came up 3mo ago
	- You can say in opening or closing statement of repeat occurances

Closing:
- Say it is *likely* a disease, do not say IT IS, because they can aks you then what you think what else it could be

Knowledge:
- Learn SEPSIS and Septic Shock
- Learn CHAD-BACS, and NY Heart Association for [[Heart Failure]],
- Pneumonia
	- If recurrent pneumonia, maybe give pneumococcal vaccine or flu vaccine
- Diabetes
	- When first diagnosed
	- How diagnosed? Who? "Diagnosed 10yo with GP with history of UTI, HbA1c"
	- What is the blood test then for it?
	- How do you control it now?
		- Well control?
		- Fluctuating suger?
	- Hypoglycemic episodes?
		- If they are driving, and have an episode, accident
		- Cans ay management because of hypo episodes, discuss cannot drive, such as with OT/MDP team
	- Have you ever taken insulin?
	- Do you know your current HbA1C?
	- Issues: "Management of Type II DM, on a background of poor patient insight"
		- Visit podietry, optomotrist
- How much insight does the patient have?
- How much engagement does the patient have?
- Osteoporis:
	- BMD score? Z-score?
	- Bone Mineral Density
- COPD:
	- If using ventalin puffer, how many times they take puffer
	- If more than 2x a week, needs ICS
- Asthma:
	- If high smoking, ask if you have formal diagnosis
	- Ask if they have spirometry
	- If no spirometry or formal diagnosis asthma, then managementissue of identifying COPD vs Asthma
- Even if it a past medical history is well controlled, ask if they have ever been hospitalised for exacerbations
	- If ti is, unlikely well controlled
- For anticoag:
	- Only state the amount, such as 500mg BD
	- Do not say its VTE prophylaxis, because you do not know


1. Acure coronary syndrome
	1. Chest pain, radiation, abrupt onset, nausea and mild SOB, improved with GTN
	2. Also has relevant past medical history, such as HTN, ex-smoker, DM
2. PE
	1. Pain, SOB, chest tightness. Expected increase SOB, calf pain
	2. HF, but no elevated JVP, no S3, no pitting edema
3. ECG, Troponin levels, CXR, FBC, CHEM20, possible CT depending on result
4
5. Patient on dual anti-platelet therapy with aspirin and clopidogrel, oxygen. CT angiogram to identify blockage, and possible stenting
6. Discussion of reduction of lifestyle factors, management of hypertension and DM, what is her lipid levels, reduction of mody weight
