*Created on 24th May 2023

# Med notes
- [ ] Added to notes
---

1. Pyeonephritis: Right flank bin, reduced urine, intermittent fever, micturition, mildly elevated temperature. Precipitatinf factors include BPH providing obstruction, CKD stage 3a
2. Complicated Cystitis, Kidney stones with obstruction
3. FBC: WCC. Urinalysis for WBC casts, cloudy urine, esterase and nitrate levels, possible hematuria. CXR for Pneumonia. CHEM20 for impact on renal function, electrolytes. Urine levels for sodium, osmolality, ultrasound for obstruction. eGFR, Ur/Creatine ratio
4. IV fluids after cannula and reduced BP. Ceftriaxone and Augmentin for patients.
5. Discuss management of CK 3a, review of medication (ramipril for CKD stage 3), BMI

1. Pneumonia: Feeling unwell, SOB, week of cough, productive sputum, febrile, bronchial breath sounds with increase fremitus and no expiratory wheeze
2. COPD exacerbation: SOB, unwell, Low SpO2, week of cough, risk factor with cigarrete. However does not explain febrile, and lack of wheeze. Similar issues with Asthma. HF as well for SOB, but no elevated JVP, pitting edema, and signs of pleural effusion. PE due to chest tightness and SOB, but no calf pain, productive sputum, and unlikely one week of cough
3. C-Xray, ECG, troponin, BNP, Pulm function test, sputum culture since in shock. FBC for WCC, CHEM20 for electrolytes, urea for uricemia, urine dipstick for UTI. D-dimer for PE/DVT
4. Admission, cannulate, IV fluids, prophylaxis antibiotics with IV benzylpenicillin. Consider vasopressors if shock does not resolve. Nasal prongs for O2.

1. Acute Liver Disease, possibly secondary from Alcohol use. Signs of Jaundice, heavy history of alcohhol use, scleral iterus, bilateral dupuytrens contractures, tremulous, spider nevi, palpable liver edge
2. Chronic Liver Disease, but unlikely to cause exacerbations of jaundiece. Acute viral hepatitis, can be seen with afebrile, but no other signs of infection. Potential cholestasis issue such as acute cholecystitis and cholelithiasis. Unlikely appendicitis, but can cause the adominal discomfort. Also unlikely budd chiari but need to rule out. Also need to rule out panadol toxicity
3. FBC: WCC. CHEM20, look for LFT, derangement of ALT/AST/GGT/ALP. Check bilirubin levels. Do a blood alcohol level check. Do an ultrasound. Do serology for hepatitis. Check CRP and ESR. ECG to rule our atypical signs of MI given past IHD
4. Initial treatment is admission, IV, fluid resuscitation, monitoring, and provide n-acetylcystine, even before checking paracetamol levels. Otherwise, continual monitoring